pathogen detection from (direct Nanopore) sequencing data using Galaxy - Updating the training with FAQ and adding an explanation concept (#3954)
galaxyproject/training-material: topics/metagenomics/tutorials/pathogen-detection-from-nanopore-foodborne-data/faqs/kalamri_database_filtering.md

---
title: Is there a way to filter on the Kalimari database? E.g. leaving out milk bacteria only to detect spoilers or contaminants, but the Kalimera list contains a lot more than that
box_type: question
layout: faq
contributors: [EngyNasr]
---

> There are of 2 approaches:
> 1. You can look at a publication etc. to find a list of bacteria to remove. Then you would change the regex `^.*Gallus|Homo|Bos.*$`  to `^.*Gallus|Homo|Bos|Bacterium1|Bacterium2...|BacteriumN.*$`
> 2. Milk pathogens are somewhat known, salmonella, escherichia ...It might be easier to retain reads only mapping to pathogens instead

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To filter the Kalamari database, e.g. leaving out milk bacteria only to detect spoilers or contaminants, but the Kalimera list contains a lot more than that, you can:
1. Look at a publication etc. to find a list of bacteria to remove. 
2. Change the regex `^.*Gallus|Homo|Bos.*$`  to `^.*Gallus|Homo|Bos|Bacterium1|Bacterium2...|BacteriumN.*$`

Milk pathogens are somewhat known, *Salmonella*, *Escherichia*... It might be easier to retain reads only mapping to pathogens instead
```
